Build Glossary and Abbreviations page in References in SDK docs 5.0.3 - Closes #897 (#952)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/references/glossary.adoc

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://orion.math.iastate.edu/linglong/Math690F04/BCH.pdf

> :url_delegate_misbehavior: pages/consensus.adoc#discover

Reviewer: consensus page is outdated, dont link to it anymore

Author: OK, now done 👍

:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom

> :url_dpos: pages/consensus.adoc#dpos

Reviewer: consensus page is outdated and will be removed, dont link to it anymore

Author: OK, now done 👍

> :url_delegate_registration: pages/consensus.adoc#delegate

Reviewer: consensus page is outdated and will be removed, dont link to it anymore

Author: Done 👍

=== Lisk Foundation

The non profit entity governing Lisk. This is based in Zug, Switzerland.

=== Lisk for Desktop

Official Lisk wallet for desktop platforms.

=== Lisk for Mobile

Official Lisk wallet for mobile platforms.

=== LSK

The token used in the Lisk Mainnet.

=== LSK reclaim (previously called `reclaim`)

A xref:{url_reclaim_lsk}[LSK reclaim] transaction type on the Mainnet converts a previously non-initialized account’s address to the new address system. This is required because the public key is required to convert from the old address system to the new address system. Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.

== M

=== Mainnet

The official main network of Lisk.

=== multisignature group registration (previously called `multisignature registration`)

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group]. This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. The set of mandatory keys needs to be specified in mandatoryKeys whereas the set of optional keys have to be specified in optionalKeys.

== N

=== Node

> A server having Lisk Core installed and therefore being part of a Lisk network, e.g. Lisk’s mainnet. It can be described as a resource for interacting with the node endpoint provided by the Lisk public API. A node can be setup with Lisk core using the following 4 distribution methods: Application, Commander application, Docker image and Source code.

Reviewer: I meant more something like this:
```suggestion
A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to a blockchain network.
Nodes fulfill many important roles in the network, like synchronising new events in the network between each other, adding new blocks to the blockchain, and providing APIs for external services in order to communicate with the network.
```

Author: OK, cool..yes my version was a bit long-winded 👍

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://orion.math.iastate.edu/linglong/Math690F04/BCH.pdf
:url_delegate_misbehavior: pages/dpos-module.adoc#discover
:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_dpos: pages/dpos-module.adoc#dpos
:url_delegate_registration: pages/dpos-module.adoc#delegate_registration

> :url_genesis_block: pages/architecture/index.adoc#genesis_block

Reviewer: Wrong link format. Remove `pages/` to fix

Author: OK, done 👍

=== Block Height

The number of blocks in the blockchain between the genesis block and the block of the specified block height.

=== Block ID

A hash of a block header that uniquely identifies a block in the Lisk blockchain.

== C

=== CDN - Content Delivery Network

A content delivery network, or content distribution network, is a geographically distributed network of proxy servers and their data centers.

=== CORS - Cross Origin Resource Sharing

Cross Origin Resource Sharing is a protocol that enables scripts running on a browser client to interact with resources from a different origin.

=== CRUD - Create, Read, Update & Delete

CRUD refers to the four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application, namely create, read, update and delete.

=== Custom Transaction

A new transaction type with its own logic for a blockchain application. Typically there is a state change on the blockchain.

== D

=== Delegate

A Lisk account which performed the delegate registration and is now able to receive votes.

> === Delegate Misbehaviour Report (previously called `Proof-of-Misbehavior` or `PoM`)

Reviewer: Everywhere, where it is mentioned how something was previously called, please remove it.

Author: 👍

Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://orion.math.iastate.edu/linglong/Math690F04/BCH.pdf
:url_delegate_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#discover
:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_dpos: dpos-module.adoc#dpos
:url_delegate_registration: dpos-module.adoc#delegate_registration
:url_genesis_block: architecture/index.adoc#genesis_block
:url_reclaim_lsk: protocol:mainnet.adoc#lsk_reclaim
:url_multisignature: protocol:transactions.adoc#multisignature
:url_token_transfer: protocol:transactions.adoc#transfer
:url_token_unlock: protocol:transactions.adoc#unlock

=== Account

A Lisk account consists of a unique identifier consisting of an address, an amount of tokens referred to as balance and possibly some additional properties used in other parts of the Lisk protocol.

=== Active Delegate

An active delegate can mostly be considered as a forging delegate, who is able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 1-103.

=== Address

> A human-readable representation of a public key on the Lisk blockchain. It has a length of 160 bits, making it computationally infeasible that two independent users would end up with the same address. An address example used at protocol level is shown here: 0xc247a42e09e6aafd818821f75b2f5b0de47c8235.

Reviewer: I think we should be more precise about the different address formats that exist.
The binary address and base32 address should be explained separately.

Author: Good point Mona! Agreed. I have now created 2 separate entries in the glossary explaining both addresses 👍

=== AES-256-CBC - Advanced Encryption Standard

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), has a key length of 256 bits and is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by the U.S. government for military and government use. CBC (Cipher Blocker Chaining), is an advanced form of block cipher encryption. A detailed description of how AES functions can be found {url_aes}[here^].

=== API - Application Programming Interface

An application programming interface is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.

== B

=== BCH Codes - Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem codes

> BCH are cyclic codes. The Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem ({url_bch_codes}[BCH^]) codes form a

Author: Yes, it seems that it does not work anymore and requires a private connection. OK, I have found a better link now 👍

=== Block Height

The number of blocks in the blockchain between the genesis block and the block of the specified block height.

=== Block ID

A hash of a block header that uniquely identifies a block in the Lisk blockchain.

== C

=== CDN - Content Delivery Network

A content delivery network, or content distribution network, is a geographically distributed network of proxy servers and their data centers.

=== CORS - Cross Origin Resource Sharing

Cross Origin Resource Sharing is a protocol that enables scripts running on a browser client to interact with resources from a different origin.

=== CRUD - Create, Read, Update & Delete

CRUD refers to the four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application, namely create, read, update and delete.

=== Custom Transaction

A new transaction type with its own logic for a blockchain application. Typically there is a state change on the blockchain.

== D

=== Delegate

A Lisk account which performed the delegate registration and is now able to receive votes.

=== Delegate Misbehaviour Report

> A xref:{url_protocol_transaction_pom}[delegate misbehavior report] refers to a transaction type on the Mainnet which reports a delegates misbehavior. Any xref:{url_delegate_misbehavior}[misbehavior of a delegate] is indicated by two contradicting block headers signed by the delegate.

Reviewer: link doesn't work.

And please use a new line for the new sentence.

Author: New line added, and link should now work 👍

=== Delegate Registration

> A xref:{url_delegate_registration{[delegate registration] is achieved via a transaction type on the Mainnet, which registers a delegate to participate in the Delegated Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.

Author: It should now work 👍

== E

=== Ed25519 - High Speed High Security Signature

Ed25519 is a public-key signature system with several attractive features: Fast single-signature verification.
Ed25519 signatures are elliptic-curve signatures, carefully engineered at several levels of design and implementation to achieve very high speeds without compromising security.

== F

=== FireHOL

FireHOL is a shell script designed as a wrapper for iptables written in order to ease the customization of the Linux kernel's firewall netfilter. FireHOL does not have a graphical user interface, but is configured through a user-friendly and easy to understand plain text configuration file.

=== Forge

How delegates produce blocks on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Fork

A fork in the network is whereby an alternative version of the blockchain is created by generating two blocks on different parts of the network simultaneously.

=== Framework Plugin

> A self-contained, off chain module which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin. Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A self-contained, off chain component which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin. Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.
```

avoid the term "module" here, to avoid confusion with modules

== G

=== Genesis Block

> The xref:{url_genesis_block}[genesis block] describes the very first block in the blockchain. It defines the initial state of the blockchain on start of the network. A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have a different genesis block.

Author: OK, it should work now 👍

== J

=== JSON - JavaScript Object Notation

JSON is a syntax for storing and exchanging data and is text written with JavaScript object notation.

== K

== L

=== LDR - Light Dependent Resistor

A light dependent resistor is a passive component, whereby when it is exposed to light the internal resistance changes according to the light intensity that falls upon it. Hence, they are deployed in light sensing circuits.

=== LIP - Lisk Improvement Proposal

A LIP is a document usually structured by the research team defining technical changes in the Lisk protocol. In addition, it can also cover an implementation or a non technical process surrounding Lisk. Furthermore, a LIP also describes the requirements, rationale and motivation for the required changes.

=== Lisk Ecosystem

The Lisk ecosystem represents the third party environment of Lisk, e.g. community members, exchanges, sidechains.

=== Lisk Foundation

The non profit entity governing Lisk. This is based in Zug, Switzerland.

=== Lisk for Desktop

Official Lisk wallet for desktop platforms.

=== Lisk for Mobile

Official Lisk wallet for mobile platforms.

=== LSK

The token used in the Lisk Mainnet.

> === LSK reclaim (previously called `reclaim`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== LSK reclaim
```

> A xref:{url_reclaim_lsk}[LSK reclaim] transaction type on the Mainnet converts a previously non-initialized account’s address to the new address system. This is required because the public key is required to convert from the old address system to the new address system. Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.

Reviewer: link doesn't work

=== LTS - Long Term Support

LTS is an acronym for long term support, and is applied to release lines that will be supported and maintained, to ensure any critical bugs will be fixed for an extended period of time.

== M

=== Mainnet

The official main network of Lisk.

> === multisignature group registration (previously called `multisignature registration`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Multisignature group registration
```

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group]. This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. The set of mandatory keys needs to be specified in mandatoryKeys whereas the set of optional keys have to be specified in optionalKeys.

== N

=== Node

A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to a blockchain network.
Nodes fulfill many important roles in the network, like synchronising new events in the network between each other, adding new blocks to the blockchain, and providing APIs for external services in order to communicate with the network.

=== NPM - Node Package Manager

> A configurable package manager used for the node JavaScript platform. It can manage dependency conflicts and put modules in place so that nodes can locate them.

Author: 👍

=== SHA-256 - Secure Hash Algorithm 256

The SHA is a 256 bit algorithm designed for cryptographic security.

=== Standby Delegate

A standby delegate, as each delegate is not able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 102-∞.

== T

=== Testnet

The official testing network of Lisk.

=== TLS ALPN - Transport Layer Security Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation

TLS is the transport layer security. The application-layer protocol negotiation is a transport layer security extension that allows the application layer to negotiate over a secure connection which protocol should be performed. This occurs in a manner that avoids additional round trips and which is independent of the application-layer protocols.

=== Token

A token refers to LSK or any sidechain token.

=== Transaction

An interaction with the Lisk blockchain which permanently writes data to it. A transaction can have multiple purposes, e.g. a balance transfer or a delegate registration.

> === token transfer (previously called `balance transfer`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Token transfer
```

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Chris Braithwaite <christopher.braithwaite@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCH_code#:~:text=In%20coding%20theory%2C%20the%20BCH,(also%20called%20Galois%20field).&text=This%20simplifies%20the%20design%20of,small%20low%2Dpower%20electronic%20hardware
:url_delegate_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#reporting-a-delegate
:url_del_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#discover
:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_dpos: dpos-module.adoc#dpos

> :url_delegate_registration: dpos-module.adoc#delegate_registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:url_delegate_registration: dpos-module.adoc#delegate_registration
:url_delegate_registration_tx: protocol:transactions.adoc#delegate

```

== C

=== CDN - Content Delivery Network

A content delivery network, or content distribution network, is a geographically distributed network of proxy servers and their data centers.

=== CORS - Cross Origin Resource Sharing

Cross Origin Resource Sharing is a protocol that enables scripts running on a browser client to interact with resources from a different origin.

=== CRUD - Create, Read, Update & Delete

CRUD refers to the four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application, namely create, read, update and delete.

=== Custom Transaction

A new transaction type with its own logic for a blockchain application. Typically there is a state change on the blockchain.

== D

=== Delegate

A Lisk account which performed the delegate registration and is now able to receive votes.

=== Delegate Misbehaviour Report

A xref:{url_delegate_misbehavior}[delegate misbehavior report] refers to a transaction type on the Mainnet which reports a delegates misbehavior. +
Any xref:{url_del_misbehavior}[misbehavior of a delegate] is indicated by two contradicting block headers signed by the delegate.

=== Delegate Registration

> A xref:{url_delegate_registration}[delegate registration] is achieved via a transaction type on the Mainnet, which registers a delegate to participate in the Delegated Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A xref:{url_delegate_registration}[delegate registration] is achieved by sending a xref:{url_delegate_registration_tx}[delegate registration transaction], which registers a delegate to participate in the Delegated Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.
```

=== Delegate Vote

> A transaction type on Mainnet which submits votes for delegates. If the votes are positive it adds the voting weight, if they are negative it removes the voting weight again. If voting weight was added, the corresponding LSK are locked and cannot be used for any other transaction.

Reviewer: This is an outdated description and needs to be updated

Author: OK, will update it 👍

=== Devnet

> A temporary, internal-only testing network running on an individual developer’s machine during development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blockchain network for development purposes.
The Lisk SDK provides dedicated genesis block and configurations to conveniently set up a local Devnet during development of a blockchain application.
```

=== DHCP - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol can be defined as a client/server protocol that automatically provides a host with its IP address. This also includes additional related configuration information such as the default gateway and the subnet mask.

=== DPoS - Delegated Proof of Stake

> xref:{url_dpos}[DPoS] is the mechanism of determining eligible block creators achieved by voting for registered delegate accounts, which are then able to create blocks depending on their vote weight. It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
xref:{url_dpos}[DPoS] is the mechanism of determining eligible block creators achieved by voting for registered delegate accounts, which are then able to create blocks depending on their vote weight.
It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.
```

== E

=== Ed25519 - High Speed High Security Signature

Ed25519 is a public-key signature system with several attractive features: Fast single-signature verification.
Ed25519 signatures are elliptic-curve signatures, carefully engineered at several levels of design and implementation to achieve very high speeds without compromising security.

== F

=== FireHOL

> FireHOL is a shell script designed as a wrapper for iptables written in order to ease the customization of the Linux kernel's firewall netfilter. FireHOL does not have a graphical user interface, but is configured through a user-friendly and easy to understand plain text configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FireHOL is a shell script designed as a wrapper for iptables written in order to ease the customization of the Linux kernel's firewall netfilter.
FireHOL does not have a graphical user interface, but is configured through a user-friendly and easy to understand plain text configuration file.
```

=== Forging

> How delegates produce blocks on the Lisk blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How delegates produce new blocks on the Lisk blockchain.
```

=== Fork

> A fork in the network is whereby an alternative version of the blockchain is created by generating two blocks on different parts of the network simultaneously.

Reviewer: This description should be improved

Author: OK 👍

=== Framework Plugin

> A self-contained, off chain component which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin. Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A self-contained, off chain component which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin.
Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.
```

== G

=== Genesis Block

> The xref:{url_genesis_block}[genesis block] describes the very first block in the blockchain. It defines the initial state of the blockchain on start of the network. A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have a different genesis block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The xref:{url_genesis_block}[genesis block] describes the very first block in the blockchain.
It defines the initial state of the blockchain on start of the network.
A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have a different genesis block.
```

== H

=== Hash Onion

This is the onion of hashes used by the delegate.

== I

=== IoT - Internet of Things

The Internet of Things refers to a wide variety of physical ''things'' or objects that are embedded with some form of technology, i.e. software and sensors to enable connection possibilities with other systems and devices over the Internet.

=== IPC - Inter Process Communication

Inter process communication is defined as a set of programming interfaces allowing programmers to coordinate activities between various program processes that can run simultaneously.

=== IV - Initialization Vector

> An initialization vector (IV) is classed as an arbitrary number that can be used in conjuction with a secret key for data encryption. This can also be referred to as a nonce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An initialization vector (IV) is classed as an arbitrary number that can be used in conjuction with a secret key for data encryption.
This can also be referred to as a nonce.
```

Reviewer: I think we should explain the term "nonce" as well in the glossary.

Author: Yes, good idea Mona. I will add it in 👍

=== IPv4 - Internet Protocol Version 4

Internet Protocol version 4 is the fourth version of the Internet Protocol.

=== IPv6 - Internet Protocol Version 6

Internet Protocol version 6 is the latest up to date version of the Internet Protocol

== J

=== JSON - JavaScript Object Notation

JSON is a syntax for storing and exchanging data and is text written with JavaScript object notation.

== K

== L

=== LDR - Light Dependent Resistor

A light dependent resistor is a passive component, whereby when it is exposed to light the internal resistance changes according to the light intensity that falls upon it. Hence, they are deployed in light sensing circuits.

=== LIP - Lisk Improvement Proposal

> A LIP is a document usually structured by the research team defining technical changes in the Lisk protocol. In addition, it can also cover an implementation or a non technical process surrounding Lisk. Furthermore, a LIP also describes the requirements, rationale and motivation for the required changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A LIP is a document usually structured by the research team defining technical changes in the Lisk protocol.
In addition, it can also cover an implementation or a non technical process surrounding Lisk.
Furthermore, a LIP also describes the requirements, rationale and motivation for the required changes.
```

> 

Reviewer: The Lisk32 explanation is still missing in the glossary

=== Lisk Ecosystem

The Lisk ecosystem represents the third party environment of Lisk, e.g. community members, exchanges, sidechains.

=== Lisk Foundation

The non profit entity governing Lisk. This is based in Zug, Switzerland.

=== Lisk for Desktop

Official Lisk wallet for desktop platforms.

=== Lisk for Mobile

> Official Lisk wallet for mobile platforms.

Author: OK, agreed. I will make a note of these, and we'll let's remove them for now. We can then add in the new updated versions of these points in due course 👍

=== LSK

The token used in the Lisk Mainnet.

=== LSK reclaim

> A xref:{url_reclaim_lsk}[LSK reclaim] transaction type on the Mainnet converts a previously non-initialized account’s address to the new address system. This is required because the public key is required to convert from the old address system to the new address system. Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transaction is only part of Lisk Core and not the Lisk SDK.
A xref:{url_reclaim_lsk}[LSK reclaim] transaction type on the Mainnet converts a previously non-initialized legacy account’s address to the new address system.
This is required because the public key is required to convert from the old address system to the new address system.
Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.
```

=== LTS - Long Term Support

LTS is an acronym for long term support, and is applied to release lines that will be supported and maintained, to ensure any critical bugs will be fixed for an extended period of time.

== M

=== Mainnet

The official main network of Lisk.

=== Multisignature Group Registration

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group]. This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. The set of mandatory keys needs to be specified in mandatoryKeys whereas the set of optional keys have to be specified in optionalKeys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group].
This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. 
```

== N

=== Node

> A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to other nodes. Together, they form a blockchain network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to other nodes.
Together, they form a blockchain network.
```

Nodes fulfill many important roles in the network, like synchronising new events in the network between each other, adding new blocks to the blockchain, and providing APIs for external services in order to communicate with the network.

=== NPM - Node Package Manager

> A configurable package manager used for the node JavaScript platform. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NPM is the default package manager for the JavaScript runtime environment Node.js.
```

> It can manage dependency conflicts and put modules in place so that nodes can locate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== O

== P

=== Package

> Distribution of a library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NPM distribution of a library.
```

=== Passphrase

A set of 12 words used to access the Lisk address.

=== PBKDF2 - Password Based Key Derivation Function 2

PBKDF2 can be defined as key derivation functions with a sliding computational cost, in order to reduce vulnerabilities to brute force attacks.

=== Peer

A node interacting with other nodes on a Lisk network, e.g. Lisk’s mainnet.

=== PoC - Proof of Concept

Short form of proof of concept blockchain application.

=== PoS - Proof of Stake

> Proof of Stake is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoS the consensus is determined based upon the stake of each user in the network.

Reviewer: This description should be improved or removed

Author: OK, I tried to keep it concise, however, I think I can improve it 👍

=== PoW - Proof of Work

> Proof of Work is is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoW in order to complete the transactions on a given network, the miners have to solve complex mathematical problems in order to be rewarded with the tokens.

Reviewer: This description should be improved or removed

Author: The same as with PoS, however, I think I can improve it 👍

=== P2P - Peer to Peer

A peer to peer network is a group of nodes (devices), that make up a decentralized network that can collectively share and store data, whereby each node acts as an individual peer.

== Q

== R

=== Release Candidate

> A proposed new version of Lisk Core for the testnet.

Reviewer: Release candidate is a general term and not targeted to Lisk Core. Please explain the general term here or remove this completely.

Author: 👍

=== REST - Representational State Transfer

> REST refers to the Representational State Transfer, which is a client-server, stateless, cacheable communications protocol. In the majority of cases HTTP is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REST refers to the Representational State Transfer, which is a client-server, stateless, cacheable communications protocol.
In the majority of cases HTTP is used.
```

=== RocksDB

A high performance embedded database.

> An embedded persistent key value store for fast storage.

Reviewer: Add link to their official homepage

Author: 👍

=== RPC - Remote Procedure Call

> RPC is a session protocol which enables a host to make a procedure call that appears to be local, however it has the ability to execute remotely on a separate machine connected to the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RPC is a request–response protocol.
An RPC is initiated by the client, which sends a request message to a known remote server to execute a specified procedure with supplied parameters.
The remote server sends a response to the client, and the application continues its process.
```

== S

=== SDK - Software Development Kit

The set of tools that allow you to build blockchain applications replicating Lisk’s technology stack and architecture.

=== SemVer

> Semantic versioning (also referred as SemVer), is a versioning system that provides a universal way of versioning software development projects in order to track changes and updates, such as plugins, add-ons, libraries and extensions.

Reviewer: Explain semVer  in more detail or provide a link to an explanation here

Author: 👍

=== SHA-256 - Secure Hash Algorithm 256

The SHA is a 256 bit algorithm designed for cryptographic security.

=== Standby Delegate

> A standby delegate, as each delegate is not able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 102-∞.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A standby delegate, as each delegate is not an <<active-delegate>>.
Rank 102-∞.
```

== T

=== Testnet

The official testing network of Lisk.

=== TLS ALPN - Transport Layer Security Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation

> TLS is the transport layer security. The application-layer protocol negotiation is a transport layer security extension that allows the application layer to negotiate over a secure connection which protocol should be performed. This occurs in a manner that avoids additional round trips and which is independent of the application-layer protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TLS is the transport layer security.
The application-layer protocol negotiation is a transport layer security extension that allows the application layer to negotiate over a secure connection which protocol should be performed.
This occurs in a manner that avoids additional round trips and which is independent of the application-layer protocols.
```

=== Token

> A token refers to LSK or any sidechain token.

Reviewer: Should have a little more detail

Author: 👍

=== Transaction

> An interaction with the Lisk blockchain which permanently writes data to it. A transaction can have multiple purposes, e.g. a balance transfer or a delegate registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An interaction with the Lisk blockchain which permanently writes data to it.
A transaction can have multiple purposes, e.g. a balance transfer or a delegate registration.
```

=== Token transfer

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which transfers LSK from one Lisk address to another one. A xref:{url_token_transfer}[token transfer] transaction will transfer the amount of tokens specified in the amount property, from the account corresponding to the senderPublicKey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A transaction type which transfers tokens from one account to another one.
A xref:{url_token_transfer}[token transfer] transaction will transfer the amount of tokens specified in the amount property, from the sender of the transaction to the specified recipient.
```

=== Transaction fee

An amount of LSK needed to send a transaction on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Transaction ID

A hash of a transaction that uniquely identifies a transaction.

=== Transaction Message

> A custom message you can attach to a balance transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom message you can attach to a <<token-transfer>>.
```

=== Token unlock

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol. The xref:{url_token_unlock}[token unlock] transaction unlocks the tokens specified in the amount that were previously unvoted for the delegate, which were specified by the delegateAddress by a vote transaction at the height given in the property unvoteHeight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The xref:{url_token_unlock}[token unlock] transaction unlocks the tokens which have been locked previously byb voting for a specific delegate.
The delegate needs to be unvoted before unlocking the tokens by sending a <<delegate-vote>> transaction.
```

== U

=== UI - User Interface

The space where computer systems and humans interact.

=== UTF-8 - Unicode Transformation Format 8

UTF-8 is a variable width encoding system which enables the translation of any unicode charater to a matching binary string.

=== URL - Uniform Resource Locator

A URL is a reference to a web resource and possesses a mechanism for retrieving the web site specified in the URL.

=== UTXO - Unspent Transaction Output

> UTXO is an unspent output. In other words it can be thought of as an indivisible chunk of a token, which is under the control of the private keys belonging to the owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UTXO is an unspent output.
In other words it can be thought of as an indivisible chunk of a token, which is under the control of the private keys belonging to the owners.
```

== V

=== Voter

> A user deploying their LSK to vote for their favourite delegates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An account deploying their LSK to vote for their favourite delegates.
```

== W

=== Wallet

> A Lisk wallet is available on both Lisk Desktop and Lisk Mobile.

Reviewer: Here it should also be explained what a wallet is.

Author: Agreed, I will add in an explanation 👍

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCH_code#:~:text=In%20coding%20theory%2C%20the%20BCH,(also%20called%20Galois%20field).&text=This%20simplifies%20the%20design%20of,small%20low%2Dpower%20electronic%20hardware
:url_delegate_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#reporting-a-delegate
:url_del_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#how-to-discover-misbehavior-of-a-delegate
:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_dpos: dpos-module.adoc#dpos
:url_delegate_registration: dpos-module.adoc#registering-as-delegate
:url_genesis_block: protocol:blocks.adoc#_genesis_block
:url_reclaim_lsk: protocol:mainnet.adoc#transactions

> :url_multisignature: protocol:transactions.adoc#multisignature-group-registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:url_multisignature: protocol:transactions.adoc#multisignature
```

> :url_token_transfer: protocol:transactions.adoc#transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:url_token_transfer: protocol:transactions.adoc#transfer
```

> :url_token_unlock: protocol:transactions.adoc#transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:url_token_unlock: protocol:transactions.adoc#unlock
```

=== Account

A Lisk account consists of a unique identifier consisting of an address, an amount of tokens referred to as balance and possibly some additional properties used in other parts of the Lisk protocol.

=== Active Delegate

An active delegate can mostly be considered as a forging delegate, who is able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 1-103.

=== AES-256-CBC - Advanced Encryption Standard

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), has a key length of 256 bits and is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by the U.S. government for military and government use. CBC (Cipher Blocker Chaining), is an advanced form of block cipher encryption. A detailed description of how AES functions can be found {url_aes}[here^].

=== API - Application Programming Interface

An application programming interface is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.

== B

=== Base32 Address

> A Base32 address is constructed using the base-32 numeral system. It works by using a set of 32 digits, whereby each digit can be represented by 5 bits (25). A common method used to represent Base32 numbers in a human-readable way is by using a standard 32-character set, which would be the twenty-six upper-case letters A–Z and the digits from 2–7. However, it should be noted that numerous other variations can be used in different contexts.

Author: Good point. OK, I have rewritten both descriptions pertaining to Lisk 👍

=== BCH Codes - Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem codes

BCH are cyclic codes. The Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem ({url_bch_codes}[BCH^]) codes form a
large class of powerful random error-correcting cyclic codes.

=== Beddow

The smallest unit of account. 100 million beddows make one LSK.

=== Betanet

A temporary, external testing network of a Lisk Core beta candidate.

=== BFT - Byzantine Fault Tolerance

In a system whereby components need to come to an agreement to reach consensus,  byzantine failures will prevent those components from reaching an agreement, (usually caused by errors that are hard to detect).
A Byzantine Fault Tolerant system ensures that measures are taken to manage such failures.

=== Binary Address

> A human-readable representation of a public key on the Lisk blockchain. It has a length of 160 bits, making it computationally infeasible that two independent users would end up with the same address. A binary address example used at protocol level is shown here: 0xc247a42e09e6aafd818821f75b2f5b0de47c8235.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A human-readable representation of a public key on the Lisk blockchain. It has a length of 160 bits, making it computationally infeasible that two independent users would end up with the same address. A binary address example used at protocol level is shown here: 0xc247a42e09e6aafd818821f75b2f5b0de47c8235.
```
The binary address it not really the human-readable form, this is the Base32 address.
Please check the explanation and example provided here are correct.

:url_reclaim_lsk: protocol:mainnet.adoc#transactions
:url_multisignature: protocol:transactions.adoc#multisignature
:url_token_transfer: protocol:transactions.adoc#transfer
:url_token_unlock: protocol:transactions.adoc#unlock

== A
=== Account

A Lisk account consists of a unique identifier consisting of an address, an amount of tokens referred to as balance and possibly some additional properties used in other parts of the Lisk protocol.

=== Active Delegate

An active delegate can mostly be considered as a forging delegate, who is able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 1-103.

=== AES-256-CBC - Advanced Encryption Standard

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), has a key length of 256 bits and is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by the U.S. government for military and government use. CBC (Cipher Blocker Chaining), is an advanced form of block cipher encryption. A detailed description of how AES functions can be found {url_aes}[here^].

=== API - Application Programming Interface

An application programming interface is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.

== B

> === Base32 Address

Reviewer 2: I admit that I introduced this term in LIP 0018, but it's not ideal and shouldn't be used, because it suggests that we have two kinds of addresses (binary addresses and Base32 addresses), whereas we only have one kind of address and additionally a special format for the user interfaces. It should be:
- Base32 Encoding,
- Base32 Encoding of Addresses,
- Base32 Format, 
- Base32 Format of Addresses,
- Base32 Representation, or
- Base32 Representation of Addresses.

I have a slight preference for "Base32 Format".

Author: I see. However, we have instances of 'Base32 addresses' and instances of 'Binary addresses' in the documentation, so that is why we tried to list them individually. 
So would you recommend we change this title for 'Base32 Address' in the glossary to 'Base32 Format' then?

Author: OK, I have re-worded it as follows, please let me know if this is more accurate.

The Base32 format is a user-friendly, human-readable representation of addresses in Base32 encoding and includes a checksum that detects typing errors. They are used to represent addresses on user interfaces. Base32 addresses are actually binary addresses in a special format and are always 41 characters in length. They contain decimal digits and lower-case letters and finally start with the prefix 'lsk'. An example address in this format will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.

Reviewer 2: If we don't add the term "Base32 format" to the glossary, I would not use it. Otherwise, it could be mixed up with the [general Base32 encoding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base32). I made a suggestion how to avoid it. Of course, you could improve the formulations if you want to.

Author: Hi Andreas, I have taken your suggestions below on board and accepted them, thanks very much 👍

> A Base32 address is a user-friendly, human readable address system in the Base32 format and includes a checksum which detect typing errors. The user interface address format is always 41 characters in length and contains decimal digits and lower-case letters, and finally starts with the prefix 'lsk'. A base32 example address will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.

Reviewer: Explain the connection between binary and base 32 here.

And please use for each sentence a new line.

> A Base32 address is a user-friendly, human readable address system in the Base32 format and includes a checksum which detect typing errors. The user interface address format is always 41 characters in length and contains decimal digits and lower-case letters, and finally starts with the prefix 'lsk'. A base32 example address will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Base32 format is a user-friendly, human readable representation of addresses in a Base32 encoding and includes a checksum which detect typing errors. It is used to represent addresses on user interfaces. An address in this format is always 41 characters in length and contains decimal digits and lower-case letters, and finally starts with the prefix 'lsk'. An example address in this format will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.
```

=== BCH Codes - Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem codes

> BCH are cyclic codes. The Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem ({url_bch_codes}[BCH^]) codes form a

Reviewer 2: Just spotted this by chance: I think it is not very important that it is a cyclic code. But is very important to say that it is an error-correcting code. That's its main property.

Author: OK, I have re-worded it to reflect this. Many thanks 👍

large class of powerful random error-correcting cyclic codes.

=== Beddow

The smallest unit of account. 100 million beddows make one LSK.

=== Betanet

A temporary, external testing network of a Lisk Core beta candidate.

=== BFT - Byzantine Fault Tolerance

In a system whereby components need to come to an agreement to reach consensus,  byzantine failures will prevent those components from reaching an agreement, (usually caused by errors that are hard to detect).
A Byzantine Fault Tolerant system ensures that measures are taken to manage such failures.

> === Binary Address

Reviewer 2: Similar to may comment above: It could suggest that we have several kinds of addresses (binary addresses, Base32 addresses, ...), although we have only one kind of address plus a special format for user interfaces (Base32 format). Therefore, it should just be "Address".

Author: OK, we can change it to just 'Address' and I can move it under the topics described beginning with the letter ''A'' However, as mentioned above there are instances of 'Binary Addresses' in the docs that ideally we wanted to refer to in the glossary. 
Of course, we can easily rename it to ''Address'' Please let us know which you feel would be the best solution taking the points mentioned above into consideration?

Reviewer 2: The best would be to rename it to "address" within the documentation. If this is not an option, then I would keep the title "binary address" here as well.

Author: OK thanks, then we will keep the title as 'Binary Address'

> A binary address is used for an account with a public key, (pubkey), which is generated by computing the SHA-256(pubkey) and truncating the output to its first 160 bits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addresses are used to identify accounts, and are derived from a public key, (pubkey), by computing SHA-256(pubkey) and truncating the output to its first 160 bits.
```

Reviewer 2: The statement "A binary address is used for an account with a public key" is a bit weird because: 
1. There may be accounts for which no public key is known. But these accounts have an address.
2. You could still argue that there exists a public key for the accounts in case 1., i.e., for accounts where the public key is not publicly known. But with this view point, every account has a public key. Therefore, "for an account with a public key" is a bit weird.

Reviewer 2: "the SHA-256(pubkey)" sounds also a bit weird to me

> Having a length of 160 bits makes it computationally infeasible that two independent users would end up with the same address. A binary address example used at protocol level is shown here: 0xc247a42e09e6aafd818821f75b2f5b0de47c8235.

Reviewer: I think the description here should be improved. Please check with @shuse2 and/or @janhack

> Having a length of 160 bits makes it computationally infeasible that two independent users would end up with the same address. A binary address example used at protocol level is shown here: 0xc247a42e09e6aafd818821f75b2f5b0de47c8235.

Reviewer 2: 1. The statement in the first sentence is correct. But if we want to highlight the security, it would be more important to say "Having a length of 160 bits makes it computationally infeasible that an adversary can find a key-pair for an uninitialized account".
2. If we keep the second sentence, then we need to say that this is "a representation of an address in hex." But I would rather remove it completely, because (a) we don't really use hex representation of addresses anywhere and (b) everyone knows how a 160-bit value looks like in hex.

Author: Hi Andreas, thanks very much. OK, I have taken your points on board, perhaps it was too much information in the first place, so I have removed the second sentence. Ideally, it really just needs to be a short and concise description 👍

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://orion.math.iastate.edu/linglong/Math690F04/BCH.pdf

> :url_delegate_misbehavior: pages/consensus.adoc#how-to-discover-misbehavior-of-a-delegate

Author: Oops, yes there should be underscores between the words after the hash. Now done 👍

:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom

> :url_dpos: pages/consensus.adoc#delegated-proof-of-stake-(dpos)

Author: Now corrected 👍

> :url_delegate_registration: pages/consensus.adoc#registering-as-delegate

Author: Now corrected 👍

> === Account +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Account
```

Please remove the plusses, they are not really necessary

=== Devnet +

A temporary, internal-only testing network running on an individual developer’s machine during development.

=== DHCP - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol +

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol can be defined as a client/server protocol that automatically provides a host with its IP address. This also includes additional related configuration information such as the default gateway and the subnet mask.

=== DPoS - Delegated Proof of Stake +

xref:{url_dpos}[DPoS] is the mechanism of determining eligible block creators achieved by voting for registered delegate accounts, which are then able to create blocks depending on their vote weight. It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

== E

=== Ed25519 - High Speed High Security Signature +

Ed25519 is a public-key signature system with several attractive features: Fast single-signature verification.
Ed25519 signatures are elliptic-curve signatures, carefully engineered at several levels of design and implementation to achieve very high speeds without compromising security.

== F

> === Feature +

Author: Now removed 👍

A new functionality added to a Lisk product.

=== Forge +

How delegates produce blocks on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Fork +

A fork in the network is whereby an alternative version of the blockchain is created by generating two blocks on different parts of the network simultaneously.

=== Framework Plugin +

A self-contained, off chain module which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin. Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.

== G

=== Genesis Block +

> The first actual block created in the blockchain.

Author: I have added a bit more detail about the genesis block and added a link, (which also in the linked explanation, refers to another link for even more info on the genesis block)  👍

An initialization vector (IV) is classed as an arbitrary number that can be used in conjuction with a secret key for data encryption. This can also be referred to as a nonce.

=== IPv4 - Internet Protocol Version 4 +

Internet Protocol version 4 is the fourth version of the Internet Protocol.

=== IPv6 - Internet Protocol Version 6 +

Internet Protocol version 6 is the latest up to date version of the Internet Protocol

== J

=== JSON - JavaScript Object Notation +

JSON is a syntax for storing and exchanging data and is text written with JavaScript object notation.

== K

== L

=== LDR - Light Dependent Resistor +

A light dependent resistor is a passive component, whereby when it is exposed to light the internal resistance changes according to the light intensity that falls upon it. Hence, they are deployed in light sensing circuits.

=== LIP - Lisk Improvement Proposal +

A LIP is a document usually structured by the research team defining technical changes in the Lisk protocol. In addition, it can also cover an implementation or a non technical process surrounding Lisk. Furthermore, a LIP also describes the requirements, rationale and motivation for the required changes.

> === Lisk +

Reviewer: not relevant for docs

Author: Now removed 👍

Overarching term for the entire project.

=== Lisk Ecosystem +

The Lisk ecosystem represents the third party environment of Lisk, e.g. community members, exchanges, sidechains.

=== Lisk Foundation +

The non profit entity governing Lisk. This is based in Zug, Switzerland.

> === Lisk Foundation Council +

Reviewer: not relevant for docs

Author: Now removed 👍

How we refer to the Lisk Foundation’s governing body. Consisting of Max, Oliver and Benedikt.

=== Lisk for Desktop +

> Our wallet for desktop platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Official Lisk wallet for desktop platforms.
```

=== Lisk for Mobile +

> Our wallet for mobile platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Official Lisk wallet for mobile platforms.
```

=== LSK +

> The token for the Lisk blockchain application platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The token used in the Lisk Mainnet.
```

> === LSK holder +

Author: Now removed 👍

A person in possession of LSK.

=== LSK reclaim (previously called `reclaim`) +

> A transaction type on Mainnet which converts a previously non-initialized account’s address to the new address system. This is required because the public key is required to convert from the old address system to the new address system. Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.

Author: Good point, now done 👍

== M

=== Mainnet +

The official main network of Lisk.

=== multisignature group registration (previously called `multisignature registration`) +

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a multisignature group.

Reviewer: similar to the transaction types above, please add a link to a more detailed explanation in the protocol docs.

Author: Done 👍

== N

=== Node +

> A server having Lisk Core installed and therefore being part of a Lisk network, e.g. Lisk’s mainnet.

Author: Done 👍

=== NPM - Node Package Manager +

A configurable package manager used for the node JavaScript platform. It can manage dependency conflicts and put modules in place so that nodes can locate them.

== O

> === Objective +

Reviewer: not relevant for docs

Author: Now removed 👍

An individual goal on the Lisk Roadmap e.g. "Improve multi-signature solution".

== P

=== Package +

Distribution of a library.

=== Passphrase +

A set of 12 words used to access the Lisk address.

=== PBKDF2 - Password Based Key Derivation Function 2 +

PBKDF2 can be defined as key derivation functions with a sliding computational cost, in order to reduce vulnerabilities to brute force attacks.

=== Peer +

A node interacting with other nodes on a Lisk network, e.g. Lisk’s mainnet.

> === Phase +

Author: Now removed 👍

How we refer to groups of objectives on the Lisk Roadmap e.g. Network Consensus.

> === Platform Development Team +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

Led by Oliver Beddows.

=== PoC - Proof of Concept +

Short form of proof of concept blockchain application.

> === PoM - Proof of Misbehavior +

Reviewer: I think we changed the term, and PoM is not used anymore

Author: Well spotted Mona! Good point indeed. It is now removed 👍

A 'proof of misbehavior' transaction allows users to reveal to the network any BFT violations.

=== PoS - Proof of Stake +

Proof of Stake is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoS the consensus is determined based upon the stake of each user in the network.

=== PoW - Proof of Work +

Proof of Work is is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoW in order to complete the transactions on a given network, the miners have to solve complex mathematical problems in order to be rewarded with the tokens.

> === Production Candidate +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

A proposed new version of Lisk Core for the Mainnet.

> === Production Stage +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

The stage the Lisk SDK is in after every phase of the Lisk protocol roadmap is implemented and the Lisk blockchain application platform is fully launched.

> === Protocol Roadmap +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

A path consisting of the most important milestones to consistently improve the Lisk protocol.

=== P2P - Peer to Peer +

A peer to peer network is a group of nodes (devices), that make up a decentralized network that can collectively share and store data, whereby each node acts as an individual peer.

== Q

== R

> === RC Stage +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

The stage the Lisk SDK is in after every phase of the Lisk protocol roadmap is implemented, and also whilst any final refinements are being completed.

=== Release Candidate +

A proposed new version of Lisk Core for the testnet.

=== REST - Representational State Transfer +

REST refers to the Representational State Transfer, which is a client-server, stateless, cacheable communications protocol. In the majority of cases HTTP is used.

> === RocksDB - A high performance embedded database +
> 
> An embedded persistent key value store for fast storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== RocksDB 

A high performance embedded database.
An embedded persistent key value store for fast storage.
```

=== RPC - Remote Procedure Call +

RPC is a session protocol which enables a host to make a procedure call that appears to be local, however it has the ability to execute remotely on a separate machine connected to the network.

== S

=== SDK - Software Development Kit +

The set of tools that allow you to build blockchain applications replicating Lisk’s technology stack and architecture.

> === Second Passphrase +

Reviewer: not relevant anymore

Author: Now removed 👍

An additional passphrase used as a voluntary, second level of security. To be removed once multi-signatures are implemented in the Network Economics phase.

=== SHA-256 - Secure Hash Algorithm 256 +

The SHA is a 256 bit algorithm designed for cryptographic security.

> === Stage +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

A general product status of the Lisk SDK.

=== Standby Delegate +

> A standby delegate, as each delegate is not able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 103-∞.

Reviewer: Can you verify, I think it should be rank `102-infinity`

Author: Well spotted Mona! You are right it is 102..Now updated 👍

== T

=== Testnet +

The official testing network of Lisk.

=== Token +

> How we refer to LSK or any sidechain token.

Reviewer: Don't us `we` or `us` when explaining glossary terms

Author: Good point, now done 👍

=== Transaction +

An interaction with the Lisk blockchain which permanently writes data to it. A transaction can have multiple purposes, e.g. a balance transfer or a delegate registration.

=== token transfer (previously called `balance transfer`) +

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which transfers LSK from one Lisk address to another one.

Reviewer: similar to the transaction types above, please add a link to a more detailed explanation in the protocol docs.

Author: OK, done 👍

=== Transaction fee +

An amount of LSK needed to send a transaction on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Transaction ID +

A hash of a transaction that uniquely identifies a transaction.

=== Transaction Message +

A custom message you can attach to a balance transfer.

=== token unlock (previously called `unlock vote`) +

> A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which locks the token used for votes.

Reviewer: similar to the transaction types above, please add a link to a more detailed explanation in the protocol docs.

Author: Done 👍

== U

=== UI - User Interface +

The space where computer systems and humans interact.

=== UTF-8 - Unicode Transformation Format 8 +

UTF-8 is a variable width encoding system which enables the translation of any unicode charater to a matching binary string.

=== URL - Uniform Resource Locator +

A URL is a reference to a web resource and possesses a mechanism for retrieving the web site specified in the URL.

=== UTXO - Unspent Transaction Output +

UTXO is an unspent output. In other words it can be thought of as an indivisible chunk of a token, which is under the control of the private keys belonging to the owners.

== V

> === Version +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Removed 👍

The number of a Lisk product.

=== Voter +

A user deploying their LSK to vote for their favourite delegates.

> === Vulnerability +

Reviewer: not relevant

Author: Now removed 👍

A bug which can be used to cause damage to a Lisk product, mainly the Lisk network.

== W

=== Wallet +

> How we generally describe our desktop and mobile user interfaces.

Reviewer: Don't us `we` or `us` when explaining glossary terms

Author: Amended 👍

Further details regarding other address representations can be seen here in the xref:{url_data_structure}[table for different data types] on the schema reference page.

=== Active Delegate

An active delegate can mostly be considered as a forging delegate, who is able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 1-101.

=== AES-256-CBC - Advanced Encryption Standard

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), has a key length of 256 bits and is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by the U.S. government for military and government use. CBC (Cipher Blocker Chaining), is an advanced form of block cipher encryption. A detailed description of how AES functions can be found {url_aes}[here^].

=== API - Application Programming Interface

An application programming interface is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.

== B

=== BCH Codes - Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem codes

BCH codes are error-correcting codes. The Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem ({url_bch_codes}[BCH^]) codes form a
large class of powerful random error-correcting cyclic codes.

=== Beddow

> The smallest unit of account. 100 million Beddows make one LSK.

Author: I think we should really say the following:  100 million Beddows is equal to 1 <<LSK>>.

=== Betanet

A temporary, public testing network for the Lisk Core beta candidate.

=== BFT - Byzantine Fault Tolerance

In a system whereby components need to come to an agreement to reach consensus,  byzantine failures will prevent those components from reaching an agreement, (usually caused by errors that are hard to detect).
A Byzantine Fault Tolerant system ensures that measures are taken to manage such failures.

=== BIP - Bitcoin Improvement Proposal

> For example, a BIP39 describes the mnemonic code or mnemonic sentence implementation. It is a protocol that describes how to create a human readable mnemonic sentence and how to convert that mnemonic into a seed.

Author: OK, I will try to amplify the description here 👍

=== Blockchain Application

An application running on its own blockchain built with the Lisk SDK.

=== Blockchain App

Short form of blockchain application.

=== Block Header

> A block is composed of a block header and a payload of transactions. The block header contains all information related to the block as well as a hash of the payload.

Author: OK, good point. I will remove it 👍

=== Block Height

The number of blocks in the blockchain between the genesis block and the block of the specified block height.

=== Block ID

> A hash of a block header that uniquely identifies a block in the Lisk blockchain.

Author: OK,  I will also remove it 👍

=== Custom Transaction

A new transaction type with its own logic for a blockchain application. Typically there is a state change on the blockchain.

== D

=== Delegate

An account which performed the delegate registration and is now able to receive votes.

=== Delegate Misbehaviour Report

A xref:{url_delegate_misbehavior}[delegate misbehavior report] refers to a transaction type on the Mainnet which reports a delegates misbehavior. +
Any misbehavior of a delegate is xref:{url_discover_misbehavior}[indicated] by two contradicting block headers signed by the delegate.

=== Delegate Registration

A xref:{url_delegate_registration}[delegate registration] is achieved by sending a xref:{url_delegate_registration_tx}[delegate registration transaction], which registers a delegate to participate in the Delegated Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.

=== Delegate Vote

For a delegate to cast a vote they are required to specify how much Lisk will be voted or unvoted with each vote. Furthermore, the Lisk address of the delegate is used, as opposed to the public key in the previous implementation. +

> In addition, the weight of a delegate will determine the sum of all votes for this delegate. Hence, to maintain a secure and effective setup, the delegate weight is bound to 10 times the self-votes.

Reviewer: To what previous implementation are you referring? Sounds confusing.
This needs to be improved or removed, as it is already explained here: https://lisk.io/documentation/lisk-sdk/dpos-module.html#vote

Author: OK, I will try to improve it.

=== DPoS - Delegated Proof of Stake

xref:{url_dpos}[DPoS] is the mechanism of determining eligible block creators achieved by voting for registered delegate accounts, which are then able to create blocks depending on their vote weight.
It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

== E

=== Ed25519 - High Speed High Security Signature

Ed25519 is a public-key signature system with several attractive features: Fast single-signature verification.
Ed25519 signatures are elliptic-curve signatures, carefully engineered at several levels of design and implementation to achieve very high speeds without compromising security.

== F

=== FireHOL

FireHOL is a shell script designed as a wrapper for iptables written in order to ease the customization of the Linux kernel's firewall netfilter.
FireHOL does not have a graphical user interface, but is configured through a user-friendly and easy to understand plain text configuration file.

=== Forging

How delegates produce new blocks on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Fork

> A fork can be defined as a change in the network. It is whereby an alternative version of the blockchain is created by generating two blocks on different parts of the network simultaneously. +

Reviewer: The first sentence seems not quite correct. Also, use for every sentence a new line.

Author: OK 👍

> Generally speaking, a fork can be defined into one of three categories, a soft, hard, or temporary fork. A soft fork can occur when the blockchain protocol is changed into a backward-compatible manner. For example, a SW upgrade that is backward-compatible with older versions would result in a soft fork taking place. +

Reviewer: what is `SW` here?
Also new line per sentence, and remove the `+` at the end of the line.

Author: Ok done 👍

> Alternatively, if the blockchain protocol is changed into a non backward-compatible manner. For example, the release of a new SW upgrade that is not compatible with the previous versions, which would require all users to upgrade to continue performing and validating new transactions, then a hard fork would occur. +

Reviewer: This sounds incorrect and confusing. 
`Alternatively, if the blockchain protocol is changed into a non backward-compatible manner.` doesn't even sound like a complete sentence here.
Please provide a clear and fitting description of a fork in a Lisk blockchain.

Author: Yes, it is also very 'long-winded so I have rebuilt it and referred to a specific link for more detailed info regarding forking in the Lisk network 👍

> Finally, in the case whereby two miners mine a new block simultaneously, then the occurrence of a temporary fork will happen.

Reviewer: Why are you talking about miners here?

Author: Now not required as the description has been rebuilt 👍

=== Framework Plugin

A self-contained, off chain component which extends the standard feature set of the Lisk SDK by a specific use case, e.g. a node monitor plugin or delegate forging plugin.
Typically there is no state change on the blockchain.

== G

=== Genesis Block

The xref:{url_genesis_block}[genesis block] describes the very first block in the blockchain.
It defines the initial state of the blockchain on start of the network.
A genesis block must be given to the application, and all networks should have a different genesis block.

== H

=== Hash Onion

> This is the onion of hashes used by the delegate.

Reviewer: Why is the hash onion needed? This should provide more info about the hash onion and what it is used for.

Author: OK now done 👍

== I

=== IoT - Internet of Things

The Internet of Things refers to a wide variety of physical ''things'' or objects that are embedded with some form of technology, i.e. software and sensors to enable connection possibilities with other systems and devices over the Internet.

=== IPC - Inter Process Communication

Inter process communication is defined as a set of programming interfaces allowing programmers to coordinate activities between various program processes that can run simultaneously.

=== IV - Initialization Vector

An initialization vector (IV) is classed as an arbitrary number that can be used in conjuction with a secret key for data encryption.

> This can also be referred to as a nonce.

Reviewer: This should be removed. It is not so relevant for the documentation, and we use the nonce term in different context so it could be confusing.

Author: Ok, good point. It is now removed 👍

=== IPv4 - Internet Protocol Version 4

> Internet Protocol version 4 is the fourth version of the Internet Protocol.

Reviewer: Add here an example how a IPv4 IP generally looks

Author: 👍

=== IPv6 - Internet Protocol Version 6

> Internet Protocol version 6 is the latest up to date version of the Internet Protocol

Reviewer: Add here an example how a IPv6 IP generally looks

== J

=== JSON - JavaScript Object Notation

JSON is a syntax for storing and exchanging data and is text written with JavaScript object notation.

== K

== L

=== LDR - Light Dependent Resistor

A light dependent resistor is a passive component, whereby when it is exposed to light the internal resistance changes according to the light intensity that falls upon it. Hence, they are deployed in light sensing circuits.

=== LIP - Lisk Improvement Proposal

A LIP is a document usually structured by the research team defining technical changes in the Lisk protocol.
In addition, it can also cover an implementation or a non technical process surrounding Lisk.
Furthermore, a LIP also describes the requirements, rationale and motivation for the required changes.

> === Lisk32 representation

Reviewer: ```suggestion

=== Lisk32 representation
```

== M

=== Mainnet

The official main network of Lisk.

=== Multisignature Group Registration

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group].
This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. 

== N

=== Node

A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to other nodes.
Together, they form a blockchain network.
Nodes fulfill many important roles in the network, like synchronising new events in the network between each other, adding new blocks to the blockchain, and providing APIs for external services in order to communicate with the network.

=== Nonce

A nonce is an abbreviation for "number only used once" and is a random number that can only be used one time. Nonces have a multitude of applications in cryptographic processes such as authentication, hashing, identification, electronic signatures, etc. +
This can be a timestamp or a special marker intended to prevent unauthorized reproductions of a file.

> Nonces are generated for a specific purpose and are most commonly used to modify the result of a function in a cryptographic communication.

Reviewer: In the Lisk docs, when we refer to the nonce we always mean the account nonce which is incrementing with each transaction. Please explain the nonce like it is used in the Lisk context instead of providing a general description of the term.

Author: Ok now done 👍

=== NPM - Node Package Manager

NPM is the default package manager for the JavaScript runtime environment Node.js.

== O

== P

=== Package

NPM distribution of a library.

=== Passphrase

A set of 12 words used to access an <<account>>.

=== PBKDF2 - Password Based Key Derivation Function 2

PBKDF2 can be defined as key derivation functions with a sliding computational cost, in order to reduce vulnerabilities to brute force attacks.

=== Peer

A node interacting with other nodes on a Lisk network, e.g. Lisk’s mainnet.

=== PoC - Proof of Concept

Short form of proof of concept blockchain application.

=== PoS - Proof of Stake

> Proof of Stake is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoS the consensus is determined based upon the stake of each user in the network. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proof of Stake is a type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network.
With PoS the consensus is determined based upon the stake of each user in the network. +
```

> With PoS users are required to stake their tokens in order to become a validator in the network. Validators are responsible for ordering transactions and creating new blocks, so that all nodes are able to agree on the current state of the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With PoS users are required to stake their tokens in order to become a validator in the network.
Validators are responsible for ordering transactions and creating new blocks, so that all nodes are able to agree on the current state of the network.
```

=== PoW - Proof of Work

> Proof of Work is the original type of consensus mechanism used to achieve agreement over a distributed network. With PoW in order to complete the transactions on a given network, the miners have to solve complex mathematical problems in order to be rewarded with the tokens. +

Reviewer: What do you mean with `original` here? I would remove that or explain more.
One line per sentence, and please remove the`+` at the end of the line.

Author: Understood..I have removed the term 'original' 👍

In a nutshell, the PoW consensus algorithm is used to confirm transactions and produce new blocks to the chain. The miners have to compete against each other to complete transactions on the network to receive their rewards. Hence, the PoW mechanism allows consensus to be reached whilst simultaneously maintaining the network security.

=== P2P - Peer to Peer

A peer to peer network is a group of nodes (devices), that make up a decentralized network that can collectively share and store data, whereby each node acts as an individual peer.

== Q

== R

=== Release Candidate

A proposed new version of Lisk Core for the testnet. +

> A release candidate can be described as a SW build released internally for testing purposes and not usually for production deployment. It is also defined as a version of the software, which should be functional but not necessarily ready to be released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A release candidate can be described as a software build released internally for testing purposes and not usually for production deployment.
It is also defined as a version of the software, which should be functional but not necessarily ready to be released.
```

:toc:
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

:url_aes: https://proprivacy.com/guides/aes-encryption
:url_bch_codes: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BCH_code#:~:text=In%20coding%20theory%2C%20the%20BCH,(also%20called%20Galois%20field).&text=This%20simplifies%20the%20design%20of,small%20low%2Dpower%20electronic%20hardware
:url_rocksdb: https://rocksdb.org/
:url_semver: https://semver.org/
:url_fork: https://lisk.io/blog/research/lisk-mainnet-regenesis

:url_delegate_misbehavior: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_del_misbehavior: dpos-module.adoc#discover
:url_protocol_transactions_pom: protocol:transactions.adoc#pom
:url_dpos: dpos-module.adoc#dpos
:url_delegate_registration: dpos-module.adoc#delegate_registration
:url_delegate_registration_tx: protocol:transactions.adoc#delegate

:url_genesis_block: protocol:blocks.adoc#genesis-block
:url_reclaim_lsk: protocol:mainnet.adoc#transactions
:url_multisignature: protocol:transactions.adoc#multisignature
:url_token_transfer: protocol:transactions.adoc#transfer
:url_token_unlock: protocol:transactions.adoc#unlock
:url_data_structure: references/schemas.adoc#data-types

> :url_hash_onion: node-management/forging.adoc#add-forging-data-to-config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:url_hash_onion: guides/node-management/forging.adoc#add-forging-data-to-config
```

It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

== E

=== Ed25519 - High Speed High Security Signature

Ed25519 is a public-key signature system with several attractive features: Fast single-signature verification.
Ed25519 signatures are elliptic-curve signatures, carefully engineered at several levels of design and implementation to achieve very high speeds without compromising security.

== F

=== FireHOL

FireHOL is a shell script designed as a wrapper for iptables written in order to ease the customization of the Linux kernel's firewall netfilter.
FireHOL does not have a graphical user interface, but is configured through a user-friendly and easy to understand plain text configuration file.

=== Forging

How delegates produce new blocks on the Lisk blockchain.

=== Fork

A fork can basically be defined as an occurrence of a blockchain diverging into two forward paths in the network.
In other words it is whereby an alternative version of the blockchain is created by generating two blocks on different parts of the network simultaneously.

> For further detailed information regarding forking in the Lisk network, see the following xref:{url_fork}[Lisk Mainnet hard fork process] description in the Lisk Mainnet Regenesis page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further detailed information regarding forking in the Lisk network, see the following {url_fork}[Lisk Mainnet hard fork process^] description in the Lisk Mainnet Regenesis page
```

Non-initialized accounts don’t have a public key associated with them yet.

=== LTS - Long Term Support

LTS is an acronym for long term support, and is applied to release lines that will be supported and maintained, to ensure any critical bugs will be fixed for an extended period of time.

== M

=== Mainnet

The official main network of Lisk.

=== Multisignature Group Registration

A transaction type on all networks based on the Lisk protocol which registers a xref:{url_multisignature}[multisignature group].
This transaction registers the sender account as a multisignature group account. 

== N

=== Node

A blockchain application built with the Lisk SDK, e.g. Lisk Core, which is connected to other nodes.
Together, they form a blockchain network.
Nodes fulfill many important roles in the network, like synchronising new events in the network between each other, adding new blocks to the blockchain, and providing APIs for external services in order to communicate with the network.

=== Nonce

A nonce is an abbreviation for "number only used once" and is a random number that can only be used one time.

> In the Lisk network it can be defined as an integer that accounts for the number of transactions from the sender account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Lisk network it can be defined as an integer that represents for the number of outgoing transactions of an account.
```

> For a transaction to be valid, this integer has to be equal to the nonce stored in the sender account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a transaction to be valid, transaction nonce has to be equal to the nonce stored in the sender account.
```

= Glossary and Abbreviations
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
:description: SDK glossary of terms from A to Z.
:toc: preamble
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images
:page-no-next: true

== A

=== Account +

> How we describe the overarching account based on an email address.

Reviewer: I don't think this is how we use the term in the documentation

Author: Good point, I have changed it 👍

> === Active Delegate +

Reviewer: Are we using this term in the docs? I thought we talk about forging delegates most of the time. Also, since v5 there are 103 active delegates each round.

Author: Yes, thanks...updated 👍

Each delegate able to forge new blocks for the Lisk blockchain. Rank 1-101.

=== Address +

> A human-readable representation of a public key on the Lisk blockchain, e.g. 8746385184555771012L.

Reviewer: The address format changed in v5

Author: it has been updated 👍

=== Address Initialization +

> The process of sending the first transaction on the Lisk blockchain. With that the public key is permanently stored as part of your address in the Lisk blockchain and checked every time you send a transaction. This means no one can access your account, even in the very rare case of an address collision.

Reviewer: This is not needed in v5 anymore.

Author: Now removed 👍

=== AES-256-CBC - Advanced Encryption Standard +

> The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), has a key length of 256 bits and is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by the U.S. government for military and government use. CBC (Cipher Blocker Chaining) is an advanced form of block cipher encryption.

Reviewer: Maybe add a link here to more information about the  standard

Author: Good idea as AES  is a complex subject. I have added a link 👍

> === Alphanet +

Reviewer: Are we using this in the docs?

Author: No we are not, so I have removed it.

A temporary, internal-only testing network of a Lisk Core alpha candidate.

> === Alpha Candidate +

Reviewer: Are we using this in the docs?

Author: Nope, we are passed that stage, so also removed now 👍

A proposed new version of Lisk Core for an Alphanet.

> === Alpha Stage +

Reviewer: We left alpha stage, no reason to talk about it anymore.

Author: Good point...done 👍

The stage the Lisk SDK is in while Security and Reliability, Network Economics, Network Consensus, and Network Longevity is being implemented.

=== API - Application Programming Interface +

An application programming interface is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.

> === Avatar +

Reviewer: Not sure we use this in the docs

Author: No its not actaully mentioned in our docs, so has now been removed 👍

The default image of an address which is being auto generated.

== B

=== BCH Codes - Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem codes +

> BCH are cyclic codes. The Bose, Chaudhuri and Hocquenghem (BCH) codes form a

Reviewer: Maybe add link for further information

Author: Done 👍

large class of powerful random error-correcting cyclic codes.

=== Beddow +

The smallest unit of account. 100 million beddows make one LSK.

=== Betanet +

A temporary, external testing network of a Lisk Core beta candidate.

> === Beta Candidate +

Reviewer: I don't think we use this in the documentation

Author: True, we don't use it, so I have removed it 👍

A proposed, new version of Lisk Core for a Betanet.

> === Beta Stage +

Reviewer: Thats more something for the roadmap than glossary

Author: Good point, removed 👍

The stage the Lisk SDK is in while Blockchain Interoperability is being implemented.

=== BFT - Byzantine Fault Tolerance +

In a system whereby components need to come to an agreement to reach consensus,  byzantine failures will prevent those components from reaching an agreement, (usually caused by errors that are hard to detect).
A Byzantine Fault Tolerant system ensures that measures are taken to manage such failures.

=== BIP - Bitcoin Improvement Proposal +

For example, a BIP39 describes the mnemonic code or mnemonic sentence implementation. It is a protocol that describes how to create a human readable mnemonic sentence and how to convert that mnemonic into a seed.

> === Blockchain Application Platform +

Reviewer: I don't think we mention this in the docs

Author: Well, we do mention it on the Passphrase page and also in the Appendix page, so I think maybe we should really keep it.

Author: Sorry, that was an error as I was referring to BIP39. You are correct, there is no mention of a 'Blockchain Application platform' in our docs, so I have now removed it 👍

A blockchain application can be launched on the Lisk blockchain application platform.

=== Blockchain Application +

An application running on its own blockchain built with the Lisk SDK.

=== Blockchain App +

Short form of blockchain application.

=== Block Header +

A block is composed of a block header and a payload of transactions. The block header contains all information related to the block as well as a hash of the payload.

=== Block Height +

The number of blocks in the blockchain between the genesis block and the block of the specified block height.

=== Block ID +

A hash of a block header that uniquely identifies a block in the Lisk blockchain.

> === Bug +

Reviewer: I don't think this is relevant for docs

Author: OK, well it was in the Lisk internal terminology doc, however I think you are right, this is not really necessary as it is rather obvious. I have removed it 👍

An unwanted outcome in a Lisk product.

== C

> === Candidate +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: It is mentioned in the Passphrase page, but again maybe a bit too obvious, so I have removed it 👍

A new version of Lisk Core.

=== CDN - Content Delivery Network +

A content delivery network, or content distribution network, is a geographically distributed network of proxy servers and their data centers.

> === CEO - Chief Executive Officer +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: OK, removed 👍

Position title of Max Kordek in relation to the Lisk project.

=== CLI - Command Line Interface +

A command line interface is a text-based interface used for inputting commands.

> === Community +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: removed 👍

An international group of followers and enthusiasts of Lisk. They can be found across various channels spanning Twitter, Reddit, Discord and offline meetups.

> === Community Member +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: removed 👍

A member of the Lisk community.

> === Contractors +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: removed 👍

How the Lisk Foundation refers to third-party companies during a contractual relationship, e.g. Lightcurve GmbH, Wachsman Inc.

=== CORS - Cross Origin Resource Sharing +

Cross Origin Resource Sharing is a protocol that enables scripts running on a browser client to interact with resources from a different origin.

=== CRUD - Create, Read, Update & Delete +

CRUD refers to the four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application, namely create, read, update and delete.

> === CTO - Chief Technical Officer +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: removed 👍

Position title of Oliver Beddows in relation to the Lisk project.

=== Custom Transaction +

A new transaction type with its own logic for a blockchain application. Typically there is a state change on the blockchain.

== D

=== Delegate +

A Lisk account which performed the delegate registration and is now able to receive votes.

> === Delegate Misbehaviour Report (previously called `Proof-of-Misbehavior` or `PoM`) +

Reviewer: We have places in the documentation giving more information about the topic, please link them here.

Author: OK I have added two links 👍

A transaction type on Mainnet which reports a delegate misbehavior.

> === Delegate Pool +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: OK, removed 👍

A group of delegates e.g. Elite, GDT.

> === Delegated Proof-of-Stake +

Reviewer: We have several places in the documentation giving more information about the topic, please link them here.

Reviewer: We mainly usse the abbreviationn DPoS, so it should be mentioned here as well.

Author: OK, now done 👍

The mechanism of determining eligible block creators via voting for registered delegate accounts, which then can create blocks depending on their vote weight. It is part of the consensus algorithm of a blockchain and used on Lisk Mainnet and in the Lisk SDK.

=== Delegate Registration +

> A transaction type on Mainnet which registers a delegate to participate in the Delegated Proof-of-Stake consensus algorithm.

Reviewer: We have places in the documentation giving more information about the topic, please link them here.

Author: OK, have added a link, (which also in the linked explanation, refers to another link for even more info on the delegate registration). 👍

=== Delegate Vote (previously called `vote`) +

A transaction type on Mainnet which submits votes for delegates. If the votes are positive it adds the voting weight, if they are negative it removes the voting weight again. If voting weight was added, the corresponding LSK are locked and cannot be used for any other transaction.

> === Developer +

Reviewer: Not relevant for docs

Author: Removed 👍

The target audience who is using Lisk Core and Lisk SDK. This includes all kinds of technical people.

=== Devnet +

A temporary, internal-only testing network running on an individual developer’s machine during development.

=== DHCP - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol +

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol can be defined as a client/server protocol that automatically provides a host with its IP address. This also includes additional related configuration information such as the default gateway and the subnet mask.

> === DPoS - Delegated Proof of Stake +

Reviewer: this is explained twice

Author: Well spotted, now corrected 👍

=== Base32 Address

> The Base32 format is a user-friendly, human readable representation of addresses in Base32 encoding and includes a checksum that detects typing errors. They are used to represent addresses on user interfaces. Base32 addresses are actually binary addresses in a special format and are always 41 characters in length. They contain decimal digits and lower-case letters and finally start with the prefix 'lsk'. An example address in this format will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On user interfaces, a user-friendly, human readable representation of binary addresses is used that uses a Base32 encoding and includes a checksum that detects typing errors. A binary address represented in this format is called Base32 address. They are always 41 characters in length. They contain decimal digits and lower-case letters and finally start with the prefix 'lsk'. An example address in this format will look like the following: ‘lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu’.
```

Author: Great thanks very much 👍

=== Binary Address

> A binary address is generated by computing the SHA-256(pubkey) and truncating the output to its first 160 bits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A binary address is generated by computing the SHA-256 hash digest of the public key of an account and truncating the output to its first 160 bits.
```

Reviewer 2: pubkey was not defined anymore

Author: Super, thanks again 👍
